---
title: Engineering neural tissue by combining pluripotent stem cells with naturally derived biomaterial scaffolds
image:
order: 1
---

<iframe class="video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vi1MmeyrtkM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
We develop 3D biomaterial scaffolds derived from natural sources for culturing and differentiating pluripotent stem cells into functional neural tissue. Such scaffolds can also be used to study stem cell behavior in a 3D environment that replicates the stem cell niche as opposed to using traditional 2D culture methods. We differentiate human embryonic stem and induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) seeded inside of 3D fibrin scaffolds into the cells found in the central nervous system. Fibrin based biomaterial scaffolds possess significant promise for transplanting stem cell therapies in vivo as multiple groups have successfully used fibrin scaffolds to significantly increase cell survival and differentiation. My group has focused on using the protein fibrin as a biomaterial microenvironment for studying pluripotent stem cell behavior. My group has optimized 3D fibrin biomaterial scaffolds to promote neuronal differentiation of mouse induced pluripotent stem cells while demonstrating the effectiveness of a new neuronal differentiation protocol. We recently investigated protocols for differentiating human iPSCs into dopaminergic neurons and observed that the human cells degraded the fibrin at an increased rate compared to the mouse cells. Thus, we are currently focused on developing fibrin scaffolds with improved stability and chemical properties tailored to human induced pluripotent stem cell culture. We also performed transcriptome analysis comparing the differentiation efficiency of human iPSCs seeded inside of 3D fibrin scaffolds to those seeded on 2D laminin surfaces and our findings will be used to further optimize the chemical properties of fibrin. Once we have determined a stable fibrin scaffolds with appropriate properties for promoting neuronal differentiation of human iPSCs, we will translate this formulation into a bioink suitable for 3D printing. 3D bioprinting will produce functional neural tissues in a rapid, reproducible high-throughput manner for end applications in drug screening and developmental biology. Our 3D printing work is being conducted in collaboration with Aspect Biosytems.
