---
title: Using functionalized transcription factors to engineer neural tissue
image: ../../images/research/3d-brain.jpg
order: 2
---

Our partner company - iProgen Biotech Inc. - developed a proprietary
intracellular protein delivery technology called IPTD that enables proteins to
be taken up efficiently by human cells. IPTD consists of a delivery-enabling
peptide sequence that is added to the target protein. This sequence promotes
endocytosis of the protein into the endosome. The protein is then transported
through the secretion pathway in retrograde, enabling it to reach the desired
destination of the nucleus in the case of transcription factors. This
technology greatly expands the potential protein targets for therapeutic
applications. For example, transcription factors, like Ascl1, have short
half-lives in vivo and are not taken up by cells. Functionalizing Ascl1 with
IPTD addressed both these issues, turning it into a powerful therapeutic. Our
2016 publication demonstrated that Ascl1-IPTD rapidly generates mature neurons
from human pluripotent stem cells when compared to a commercially available
differentiation protocol. We are now investigating the potential of this
protein to reprogram human fibroblasts into neurons direct. Popular
reprogramming methods use 1) lentiviral transfection to induce protein
expression, or 2) cocktails of small molecules to transform cells into
different phenotypes. However, these methods have significant disadvantages,
limiting their utility. These drawbacks include low reprogramming efficiency,
inconsistent levels of protein expression, and random oncogene activation. Our
novel reprogramming method uses a avoids these translational limitations
associated with current methods, while providing significant improvement in
reprogramming efficiency.
